INSTRUCTIONS:
- Skim read the assigned report
- Consider the criteria & questions below
- Write constructive assessment and feedback for each question, e.g. what is good, what is missing / hard to understand, what can be improved.
Note: The relevant grading criteria is given within []

OVERALL
1. How well is the IEEE template used; 2 columns, correct formatting (layout and fonts) of page, title, author list, abstract, keywords, headings, paragraphs, reference notation etc? For example, do all table and figures have a number and a legend text, and are referenced in the text. Are references to literature referred to by [n] in the text? [Form - format & language, scientific references]

Answer: The report follows the IEEE template well, but can be partially improved as some elements are missing such as keywords, and abstract. However, this issue is understandable as the draft is not yet completed. Correct me if I am wrong but from what I can see, the reference to fig 1 is missing which should be included in the text as all tables and figures must be referenced according to the IEEE template. Otherwise, all references looks correct when it comes to the referred literature [n] in the text.

Notes:
The sources are all from specific links, and websites so from what I can see in the references, they are displayed correctly in the IEEE format, including title, author,

Good explaination of the business model, aspects, ecosystem and introduction, channels. Stakeholders not yet identified. Sources good.


2. Does the report contain, at least an outline of all parts? What parts are missing, are especially good/weak?
- Title and authors including group name: Answer: Yes theres a title with authors, but it does not include the Group name.

- Abstract: Answer: Missing. However, it is understandable as an abstract is often written last.

- Introduction (incl OSS and business ecosystem description with figure): Answer: It is included

- Business aspects (skeleton draft ONLY! of business and revenue model incl customer segments, value proposition and channels): Answer: The aspects that are included are: customer segments, value proposition, and channels, so yes. However, the draft attempted to include stake holders as well.

- Legal aspects (an initial list of involved OSS licences and peer-reviewed references) Answer: Yes, according to the draft/report, Uber uses various open-source software licenses depending on the service. The report mentions MIT and Apache 2.0 licenses as two of many licenses who Uber uses.

- Ethical aspects (an initial list of peer-reviewed references): Answer: Unfortunately no, the report does not include ethical aspects, nonetheless any peer-reviewed references

- References: Answer: Yes

- [For 2-person essays] Contribution statement that conveys who has done what and how many hour each person has worked on the assignment: Answer: Yes there is a section for a contribution statement.


SECTION 1 - Introduction and Ecosystem - Full draft
3. Which territory and niche are used in the opening paragraph? How well does the territory connect to the intended reader? How well does the niche introduce the main topic of the essay? Can you grasp what the essay is about by just reading the opening paragraph - how come / why not? [Form - structure & flow]

Answer: The opening paragraph highlights the digital transformation of urban mobility, how transportation went from traditional infrastructure to digital software. In addition to that, the report's niche focuses on Uber's unique ecosystem of transportation service, how their platform operates and how they have shaped the modern day transportation system. The niche blends in well with the topic as it introduces an important aspect of modern day transformation and how the topic, or the Company is one of the key driving factors for this infrastructure. In other words, yes it is easy to understand and follow the text just by reading the first opening paragrapth, and guess where the text will go, as it goes on with introducing transportation as the main topic, and then focuses on modern transportation relying on software applications, which many including me will Think of uber drive, bolt etc.

4. Consider the description of the analysed system/service in the Introduction. Does the text help the reader grasp the purpose and context of the system/service, or do you need to google? [Content - OSS & Ecosystem]

Answer: The text is quite self-explanatory as it introduces the topic well for the reader and explains all the concepts in the text. Furthermore, the report is structured and follows the skeleton draft, supporting this clarity.

5. Is a distinct system/service analysed and described in relationship to the company behind the system/service? For example, gMail vs the company Google, or the Spotify service vs. Spotify the company behind the service. Companies should be described as actors in the business ecosystem around the system/service. [Content - OSS & ecosystem]

Answer: Yes, the report has mentioned Uber as the company with multiple services, and a larger business ecosystem. However, in this report, the transportation service is more distinguished and is the main topic being analyzed.

6. Consider the description of the Open source software (OSS) used and the business ecosystem context. How well does the description and the figure convey an understandable overview of all the main actors of the business ecosystem?  (The focus should be on the business and organisational actors, rather than on technical details and interfaces.) [Content - OSS & Ecosystem.]

Answer: The text describes many OSS Components that Uber is dependent on several open soure software commmunities, building upn their already existing technical infrastructure. For instance, the report mentions React native for their mobile app development, MySQL for data storage, and Apache Kafka Project that supports real time event streaming etc. Both Uber and the OSS services exchanges values and benefits from each other mutually.

SECTION 2 - Business Aspects – skeleton draft (only!)
7. Is the (future) structure of the section conveyed, i.e. paragraphs and topics of these, without containing full (flowing) text? Are the main aspects of the business and revenue model covered, i.e. customer segments, value proposition, and channels? What is missing? (A skeleton draft enables quickly scanning and providing feedback on the structure and content.) [Content – Business]

Answer: The structure of the text could be improved as currently, the business aspect contains a full flowing text without having subsections in that particular subject such as business aspects. However, the text does contains some gaps just to make it easier for the reader to read and grasp the different business aspects such as revenue model, and business model. In conclusion, the structure can be improved but the most important aspects are covered in the business aspect section, the customer segments, value proposition, and channel.

REFERENCES

8. For each of the content areas (OSS&Eco, Business, Legal, Ethical, how many and what type of references are included, peer-reviewed and/or others? At least one per content area? [Form - scientific references]

Answer: from what I can see, there are no peer-reviewed references covered in the report. The sources from the report varies from Uber's website, to other sources such as research publications, articlces from TechCrunch, papers such as https://patents.google.com/patent/US9230292B2/en, and finally informational texts.

9. Read the reference list and assess the trustworthiness of the references used. Is this possible without accessing any links/URLS - why / why not? In particular, consider what information is provided regarding publication forum in the reference list. [Form - scientific references]

Answer: One particularly source I can think of that could be potentially untrustworthy are the sources or links that redirects you to Uber's website as they could be incredible biased towards their own business, which isn't really weird as no Company would leave out things that could ruin or worsen their reputation. Some sources, such as gdpr-info.eu are more trustworthy just by looking at it as the website are provided by EU themselves. To complement the source from Uber, perhaps adding a complementary source that is not biased towards Uber for more balance in the report.

10. Consider the references given with URLs. How many of these are correctly denoted and require a URL in the reference list? Which references can be denoted without a URL, by providing information on its publication forum instead, such as journal, conference, newspaper etc? [Form - scientific references]

Answer: Perhaps the source published by escholarship as it is a publishing platform subsidized by the University of California, meaning that it is very easy to find the source based on the information given in the references.
